Now, doing this, it will look
more similar to other languages.
So, in other languages,
typically, one file has its own context.
In JavaScript, by default, if we are not
using modules, everything is global.
And you may have conflicts between several
files using the same variable names for
example, not when we are in modules.
Make sense?
So, now that means that now
we can go here and import for
from Services/store.js we need to
express how do we wanna import that and
because we use default
export I can just create,
If I like this By the way you can
use semicolon or not it's up to you,
because I'm old I'm used to
your semi colons on JavaScript, but
you know that today's mostly if
you're not going to bundle this.
Because when you bundle JavaScript and
you compress the JavaScript not using
semicolons can lead to problems.
But if you're going to ship
your JavaScript as it is.
I prefer to still use
semicolons on this language.
There are other languages
such as Kotlin or
Swift where you have
semicolons optional as well.
But I am on those languages.
I don't use them, okay.
So now that we have imported
those that means that we can use them and
how I'm going to use them?
For example, this store,
I want the store to be global.
I wanna have one store per app, so
one store for the whole app, right?
So it's right now global?
No, it's not really
a global object right now.
How can we because it's a module,
and because it's a module,
it's not really a global variable.
So something one pattern I'm not
saying it's the best pattern, or
the only pattern.
One pattern is to put talk
to the window object here,
but typically only for
some special situations.
So we are breaking the module for
one second.
And we can create for example, an object
with a name app, or any other name.
Okay, but app will work or myapp or Frontend
Masters app, wherever name you want to use.
And then over that object
you can define for
example, the store mean I don't
need to do this in this way.
I can use just the JSON Syntax
if you want, but
just to show you that we can
create an object and then later,
hook into that object different ideas or
methods or functions.
Now, every time I access
app.store anywhere,
I'm accessing that singleton, okay?
So before modules, everything was global.
But with modules,
this is one way to actually pick
what you want to make global.
And it's better.
It's a good practice best practice to
create an object and then hook everything
to that object instead of creating a lot
of global variables that you don't
know if they're going to make
conflicts with browser in the future.
Okay, well, even app, you may say,
well, what happens in the future?
There is a spec that is using
the app keyword for something else.
Well, you can do a prefix here, so
you can use underscore,
so it's up to you, okay?
So that's the first part, okay?
So, what's next so
the next thing that we may want to do
is to load the data so to call the API.
Okay, so we wanna call the API.
The problem is that if I can
call the API from here I can
because I imported that so
I can call fetch menu.
And then it returns a promise.
So I need to await for it.
I create an async.
I'm going to refactor this just to hum.
So you know, and
then I have the menu, okay?
So I create a constant with a menu.
But I mean DOM content loaded.
What should I do with the menu?
So it's a local function.
It's an event handler.
I mean, I could render now,
my menu from here.
I can do that.
And that's one way, but
it's not really modular.
If I'm when the DOM is loaded,
I go fetch the data and
then render the data on the DOM.
Can I do that?
Yes, I can.
But we can do better and
doing better means that
maybe we want to create
another service that
will manage things around
in this case it can be
the order things around
the menu itself okay?
Things around working
with my data model and
I'm not using any specific
design pattern like MVC MVVM
you can use those if you want I'm
not saying no, you can use those.
So for example, in this case,
I can create a new.
You will finally understand why I'm
doing this in this way in a minute.
I can create a new file.
It can be order, it can be menu.
You can change these names if you want,
it's up to you.
In this case, I can create, I can export
a function with a name low data for
the menu.
So I mean, the menu.
If you look here, I'm not creating
an object as I did before,
just to show you a different
way of doing things.
So API has an object,
store has an object here a menu I'm
just creating a function and
exporting the function
which one is better I don't
know is different okay.
Just pick remember I mentioned it's going
to be a mix of different patterns here.
So load data will actually go and
talk to the API.
To talk to the API,
we need to import the API.
Having mind if you're using VS code,
as I used to add the import
that in the browser,
you must use the full URL/ VS Code
says I want to import from API but
it doesn't say .js.
So it's not going to work.
You need to add the .js when
you're using Babel or TypeScript.
Those tools will actually
make it work anyway.
But not directly in the browser,
we need to add the .js when
we are importing the file.
So now I can call my fetch menu.
And what do I need to do with that?
Well remember that we have the store.
Well we could talk to the store,
that now we have an app.store and
say that hey we do have a new menu and
that menu is what
we are receiving
asynchronously from the API.
And because I have a wait, I also need to
upgrade my function to an async function.
I'm just separating responsibilities.
We can do everything in
the DOM content loaded.
But in this way it will look better and
you will see that we
will add more functions here for
different usage.
So after I've done that now instead of
calling the API directly I'm going to just.
Say hey, maybe what we want
if we want to load data and
load data is a function that
is available in menu js.
In case you're wondering why this
import has this syntax compare
with the other one is because API and
a store were using export default.
While a load data needs curly braces
because it's exporting the function,
not as default and
you can export more than one.
That's why it doesn't contain
curly braces API and store.
I mean, so far,
it looks like pretty much the same thing.
So we have, when the page loads,
we are starting app.js,
we're calling load data in menu.js,
load data is calling the API, and
it's storing that in the store.
Probably you're thinking, but
how do I know if the store is changing?
In terms of mean that
in terms of triggering
updates in the UI, we will get there okay.
So we will see how can we detect that has
changed without doing it manually, okay.
We will talk about reactivity later how
can we react to the menu being changed?
Okay, we will get there but for
now we are just chaining methods.
Nothing more than that, okay.
Nothing really interesting.
But now, if I try this.
That's where I said.
It's here.
Let me pull this out.
If I refresh now,
I don't see anything, which is okay.
If I inspect, and they go to the console,
I could check what my app has.
And it has a store.
And the store has an empty cart and
a menu and the menu has data.
Okay, yeah, we're not rendering this yet.
We will get there okay but that's one
part that it's kind of ready okay, so
we have the data that's the first step
yeah it's in memory but it's there